people say there are only two things
that are
inevitable in life
uh death in texas
censorship is inevitable i think we can
really genuinely sincerely say
that censorship is inevitable and if you
live in a democracy debates about what
should
and should not be censored
are therefore inevitable also i think
well
i was going to say i think it is amusing
be more honest to say it is amusing to
me
that today we have this phenomenon of
the alt left
catching up with and considering
political issues that consumed the
alt-right
five years ago in some cases more like
eight years ago they're really behind
the trend and today i'm responding to
controversy
raising the most fundamental questions
of
the significance of censorship in a
democracy it's going on between tj kirk
and people whom he now regards as his
more successful competitors and i could
say channeling the energy of the new alt
left people he regards
as a more extreme left-wing demagogues
than himself which is somewhat hilarious
to hear
um
doubtless including people like jimmy
dore
and uh kyle kalinski whose name
explicitly so on and so forth what a
world we live in where kyle kolinsky can
be considered some kind of
fire brand leftist you know what i mean
shout out to the people shooting up the
audience this is a completely
spontaneous unannounced video so it's
nice if anyone shows up sometimes i give
you guys advanced notice
nice to see you wild style
uh we're broadcasting at the perfect
time for my viewers who are in
australia and new zealand
alexa what's the time in adelaide
australia
it's 1 47 pm
perfect perfect timing
for all my big fans in adelaide
some some of my biggest fans live in
adelaide australia you might not know
this
all right so i just want to say um most
of you guys oh good yeah and this viewer
is indeed in new zealand all right glad
to hear it
uh back when i lived in china i was
broadcasting on new zealand time pretty
much every day so i used to say that all
the time i'm going to build up a huge
audience in new zealand
what i ended up doing was building up an
audience in sweden for whatever reason i
had way more i had way more uh viewers
in
[Laughter]
way more viewers in sweden than in new
zealand by the end of that exercise so
look guys there's the background of the
amazing atheist going into the situation
the background of kyle kolinsky i think
is not even worth talking about could
come up and you know there's my
background also as a commentator i'm
certainly someone who has also
criticized the amazing atheist the
amazing atheist in some ways is one of
the great innovators who defined the
rules of the game and went on to break
all the rules of the game so on and so
forth um
the amazing atheist i feel comes into
this discussion
with the most painful sort of
disadvantage
because he is ignorant of the people of
whom he speaks
the amazing atheist refers so
confidently to the possibility that in
future we would have a branch of
government staffed entirely by
scientists who would be competent to
determine objectively what is and what
is not the truth what should and what
should not be censored now he does a
good job of making this unpalatable
argument seem palatable
uh
and he is not someone who is entirely
unlearned and unread he digresses to
talk about the history of
germany and world war ii he digresses to
talk about different kinds of uh
fascist extremists and communist you
know worst case scenarios where the
government has this power to control um
who can and cannot complain in effect
the use of freedom of speech and he you
know in frames his own argument in this
way
to seem moderate and to seem reasonable
but it all relies on this notion of the
personal
virtue of scientists as if scientists
were people very much different from
religious leaders whom he vilifies as if
scientists were people very much
different from politicians
and they're not
now i made a video that i'm sure none of
you were thinking of in this context
sorry i said there's the amazing atheist
background and there's my background
i have made videos boldly taking up an
unpopular position in favor of
censorship although in this video
paradoxically i'm in the opposite
position because i'm arguing against the
atheists uh pro-censorship position but
i do i do argue regularly in favor of
censorship and it comes up i live in a
very left-wing context most of the
people who talk to me are left-wing and
they consider me relatively conservative
or relatively right-wing compared to
them you know if i moved to texas i'd be
considered left-wing but if you live
around a whole bunch of you know vegan
bernie sanders supporters you know i
might seem conservative compared to some
of the company i keep uh etc but you
know um
i have a background we were talking
about the state a very different way
i've been surrounded by people with phds
my whole life
you know i am painfully aware that
formal education is not a substitute for
virtue and formal education is not
virtue unto itself
someone like the amazing atheist who you
know he genuinely is a self-made man he
got rich
you know with nothing but a bad haircut
and a bad attitude here on youtube he
was one of the few kind of pathfinders
he was one of the few people who
redefined the medium defined the rules
the game wanted to break them so on and
so forth you know
um
do you really think the amazing atheist
has spent enough time in universities do
you think he spent enough time talking
face-to-face with laboratory scientists
to realize just how fallible and just
how human they truly are i don't think
he's even gone out to the bar with those
people i don't think he's seen those
people drunk i don't think he's seen
them sober
and when he reads the history of the
world which he does he's not completely
unlearned he's an autoduck he's done
some reading
you know when he reads for example the
history of the nazi party in germany
he doesn't see that as part of the
history of science
he doesn't see the extent to which
the true believers the supporters of
german fascism german extremism
were in fact themselves scientists or
themselves the most highly formally
educated people in the country now i can
say exactly the same thing with the
history of communism but it's just not
the case that in russia or in china
communism was exclusively or even
predominantly supported by uneducated
peasants by the least educated and most
oppressed people it's actually a
constant source of embarrassment for the
communists and they have to come up with
complex jesuitical
explanations for why it is that actually
they were mostly supported by bourgeois
intellectuals and kind of elite
university educated people there were no
no end of the scientists who were
supporting communism in the most extreme
most terrible forms of communism you
know
scientists aren't merely
fallible
in some ways they are much worse people
than the religious leaders who
tj kirk finds it so easy to vilify
hey guys i am seeing your your comments
uh come in but
if they're not entirely relevant to the
conversation they're not entirely uh
fascinating to me i won't necessarily
reply but thank you for being here and
thanks for for commenting you're welcome
to contribute to the conversation you're
welcome to distract me and you're
welcome to contradict me or criticize me
while we're doing this live
uh you're also welcome to hit the thumbs
up button by the way maybe some more
people will discover this maybe tj kirk
himself will join us he has nothing
better to do and i i send out the send
out the alert to him so in fact i'm
absolutely certain he has nothing better
to do if any of you want to on twitter
or on even on his tumblr he used to
answer me on his tumblr remember i
talked to him a couple times on time
send him a message on twitter say hey
there's a guy having a meaningful
discussion of censorship and your your
position on it on youtube maybe you can
come and join the audience so invite
people if you know anyone to invite
including you know you can invite uh you
can invite tj kirk okay so
in his two videos he's made about this
so far he made one video and then he
responded to criticism
he appeals to your sentimentality he
appeals to your prejudices in the
audience by presenting it as a
self-evident fact
that scientists are morally good
whereas religious leaders
are morally evil now babe why don't you
hand me your your book about uh sorry
the the the book about antidepressants
and so on
sorry just say yeah okay we we're living
through this this book is titled
i guess
all right let's just stick to endorsing
one book at a time here
the book about the very recent and still
unfolding history of scientists and
medical doctors
forcing millions of people to take drugs
that have absolutely no scientifically
provable medical benefit and on the
other hand have very real side effects
so-called antidepressants
psychiatric treatments of various kinds
that have been debunked
but also make millions of dollars this
is a book that shows the fallibility and
bias of
institutional science and individual
scientists and medical experts on a
massive scale and in a way that's ruined
millions of people's lives i part of
what i'm saying to you is
this is not the exception to the rule
this is the rule okay
now it's one type of science
you know i've also spent my life around
people who did social science research
you know
talk about a problem like gambling
there are people with phds whether it's
in political science or in psychology or
psychiatry or you know people who spin
out all kinds of theories
about gambling and what we can do to
help gamblers i'm absolutely certain
there's some scientists somewhere who's
got a thesis that's worth a lot of money
that the best way to help gamblers is to
get them hooked on xanax you know get
them hooked on benzodiazepines or
antidepressants or something well we
have to understand gambling as a nervous
disorder
has to do with anxiety and
[Music]
come up with some excuse to get them on
expensive brain disabling
you know chemical treatments
mind-altering drugs i'm sure there are
all kinds of different theories who
really knows more
about
gamblers
and gambling and what they're going
through scientists
or christian preachers
it's real easy to vilify these people tj
and tj i am more
of an atheist than you are all right i'm
a self-identified
nihilist
i i take atheism across much further
than tj does and sorry tj if you ever
somehow end up watching this video i
know i know this you will scoff at that
you will say that's ridiculous how could
you possibly be more atheistic to me or
more nihilistic than me well if you
start watching a few more videos on this
channel you'll figure it out all right
i'm willing to make political
commitments you are not willing to make
in terms of actually destroying religion
on planet earth actually making progress
not 500 years from now
now you know
i'm willing to take very bold steps in
that direction that you that i know
you're not you know i respect your
position i've heard you explain your
position you're not okay
um
as easy as it may be
to vilify the humble christian preacher
okay he lives among the people and he
helps the poor and the weak and the
downtrodden in a way that you don't
tj all right tj have you ever helped an
alcoholic
overcome his alcoholism have you ever
helped a gambling addict overcome his
gambling addiction and of course i don't
believe prayer works
i don't believe quoting the bible to
them is i don't believe quoting the
bible for them is any more effective
than quoting shakespeare or some secular
philosophy if you quote the bible and
it's a good quote
it could have an effect on someone who's
a gambling addict or an alcoholic but
not because of any divine agency you
know you managed to find something
meaningful you could also find something
in shakespeare or any well-written book
that buddhist philosophy you name it you
know you could you could give someone an
uplifting quote or guidance but you know
caring for people and seeing
the reality of their problems i know
this is going to sound ridiculous but
even if you think about a problem like
obesity
you know religious leaders who live in
the community and help people with their
problems and talk to them
they don't about obesity too you have to
know about obesity drug addiction
alcoholism gambling they know about
these things
in a way that scientists do not
they all their lives long
are students of human nature and they
know the sorrow and the agony of really
trying to help people i say again prayer
doesn't work
the drugs don't work
either
now
there are scientists
and there are
individual scientific studies
completely debunking
prozac for example prozac is one
specific
ssri
antidepressant there are
there are
let me ask tj kirk the amazing atheist
if you had your way in this world if you
were able to bring about this reform
you're describing
whereby a council of scientists
would sit down and decide the difference
between truth and falsehood
or why they would rule in the public's
interest on what people are and are not
allowed to say
i think we have ample evidence
that still today
your scientists would establish it as a
fact
that everyone should be taken prozac
that prozac is helpful and not harmful
when
we know
this is not true who's we
a tiny minority a minority of dissident
people who are willing to do the
research and challenge the status quo we
know it's actually a proven fact
that prozac doesn't work that it has
real harmful side effects and either
zero benefit or a benefit so small
that it can be confused with a placebo
effect etc etc some incredibly it's
either incredibly marginal benefit
comparable the placebo effect or no
benefit at all and the harm done to you
is very real
um
how about circumcision
tj
is it what you would call
an uncontrovertible scientific fact that
circumcision does harm i remember i
remember being shocked to see it
now decades later i heard people talking
about on youtube i've seen the official
opinion of the american
college of physicians and surgeons
reassuring you that
circumcision is completely harmless and
completely acceptable that it shouldn't
be illegal that it's
that the benefits outweigh the harms so
on and so forth you're looking at you
know you're looking at um
losing 40 of the nerve endings in your
penis you're looking at really permanent
really serious irreparable harm being
done to millions and billions of infants
against their will now i think there is
actually a separate kind of debate to be
had about
whether or not circumcision should be
allowed for people over the age of 18
who give informed consent
but for the parents or grandparents or
or religious leaders to make the
decision to carry out circumcision we're
in a situation right now where
scientists you know respectable phd
wielding scientists are willing to line
up
and say what is convenient instead of
what's true why do they do this
now you know
most people want to jump to the profit
motive okay and you know i think
probably if we went through enough of
tj's own videos i think we'd find videos
because i've heard him making some kind
of
anti-capitalist statements where his
mind is
running wild this way whether the profit
motive corrupts everything i think a lot
of people read this kind of book and
they say oh well the reason why these
scientists are
making excuses for drugs that don't
really work and so on it's the profit
motive you know it's it's money
um
i think if you really met these people
if you really spent time with these
people
that would cease to be
believable
for you
you know
like if you look at what a stock broker
is doing on the stock market
well all of it has to do with money
but it's not like you can pin down and
explain a particular decision they made
whether it's a good decision or a bad
issue oh well the problem with that
decision he made on the stock market
today was that it was motivated by money
you know if you are
a medical doctor
you ask a medical doctor so why did you
decide to specialize
in toe fungus people get fungal
infections on their toes
you're not going to have a simple answer
oh what was money
oh
okay you can make money being a
specialist in
toe fungus right
and you can make money
delivering babies
as a medical with the same credentials
there's money
either way right and that's going to
sound ridiculous but really for these
people in these specialized areas
all the people i know with phds you know
to say they're motivated by money they
sit there and they fill out a form
requesting research funding and a lot of
them they fill out six a year okay i've
i've never known someone personally you
did that many a year i've read about it
i've i've actually never personally
known someone with a phd you did six
funding proposals a year but but it's
out there um and i know there are some
departments that have teams of people
writing these research proposals and one
guy just signs them it's like it's he's
pretending it's his research probable so
that he can get out
all these proposals every year i
personally did not know anyone like that
but anyway whether they're doing two
research proposal or four
if you said to them like the research
can be on anything
well we could we could use an example
relevant to this discussion they could
be doing research on censorship they
could be doing research on the
psychological effects of male
circumcision
we're doing research on something to do
with antidepressants and their effect
you know
unemployment
as a long-term consequence of getting on
psychiatric drugs there's a great area
of social science research
but to look at their particular research
project and then say to them well you
know you just did this for money you
just did this for the profit motive the
reality for them is they would make
money no matter what research they did
like you know if they had proposed one
project versus another the about the
amount of money coming in would be about
the same in the same way that like from
the stock brokers perspective everything
he's doing
is related to money but it's not like
you can explain any one decision in this
in this way as being exclusively about
money it's not something where you can
hold up an idea of what an uncorrupt
person would be or an incorruptable
person would do in that scenario and
then contrast it to what actually
happened and say clearly when we compare
these two we can see
the difference the corruption made all
right money is a factor in all academic
research and everything that people with
phds do and in a sense it's meaningless
because every
everything is equally corrupt all
options are equally corrupt and again if
you talk to that medical doctor there
may be some exceptions
but you know it's not really something
you give a simple answer to like okay
you used to be a heart surgeon
why did you stop being a heart surgeon
to go into fungal infections
there's going to be a story there's
going to be a reason there's going to be
some reason of a decision but it is
never going to be as simple as money and
i know it's going to sound stupid to you
but if you know these people if you've
eaten lunch with these people if you
know them face to face in a way that tj
the amazing atheist does not you would
know this
however much more money you would make
working in
fungal
foot infections if you made more money
than doing heart surgery the money would
not be
enough
it would not justify you doing fungal
toe infections instead of heart surgery
because for you as someone in that
position whether it's that you already
have a phd we already have 20 years of
medical training and education behind
you right at that point like the the the
crucial factor that's going to make the
decisive difference it's not going to be
money all right
and i'm i'm you know i'm going to limb
here and saying to you
when you look at the stupidity
the recklessness
the the the terrible harm done by
scientists in every generation including
our own scientists under communism in
the soviet union scientists under the
nazi party in germany scientists under
capitalist democracy in the united
states america doing unspeakably awful
terrible things all right i ain't gonna
go to them and save you it's never the
money
because they could have been making
six different ways they'll make money no
matter which option they do and they'll
make enough money you know they'll make
enough money doing heart surgery they
don't have to do breast augmentation
breast lift even if they make more
it's never going to be
the factor that makes the decisive
difference now say something i'm now 42
years old guys
i've been studying politics my whole
lives my whole life long did i start at
age 11 when did i start studying
politics you know i don't know okay guys
i kind of wish i kind of wish i did have
a youtube channel when i was when i was
younger and when i had more of a soft
heart and when i got more hurt and upset
by these things you know i
some of the things i've i've talked
about with melissa reminded me of that
of that time in my life you know um
[Music]
you know i remember reading about
horrifying experiments done on human
beings by the cia
by cia partner agency cia scientists and
i remember reading
about the cia
assassinating some of the scientists who
worked for them when they became
inconvenient
you know
and i remember my sense of horror and my
sense of revulsion
and my mind you know i i've been raised
to be left wing my mind kind of
automatically going into this left wing
downward spiral where it seems like
everything america does is
bad people are wrong you know what i
mean whereas start kind of
you start thinking america can't do
anything right because they did this
this one thing wrong i've got to tell
you something when i when i read that
kind of stuff today i don't see it that
way i don't
feel about it that way
you know i've really changed and i don't
think it's that my heart has grown cold
you know i i don't
all right
so um
i give many examples the cia actually
did do experiments
about whether or not they could
traumatize someone enough
to create a split personality
so they could switch between
multiple personalities okay they did
actually do and it involved torturing
people
from what i read it probably did also
involve
raping people while they were under the
influence of drugs unbelievably horrible
and unspeakable things that were done to
try to traumatize people
to give them slippers from from what
i've read this really does seem to be
the case
and
some of these psychological experiments
some people survived after being
tortured and mistreated to
they were vegetables afterwards that
were useless
you know they were severely mentally
injured
people having haven't been through this
okay
and i'll tell you something else i read
about this this particular set of
experiments involved traumatizing people
but it was something like they had 15
scientists
on the project
and they kind of came to the end of the
phase one report
so again obviously this is from memory
and it's possible the source i was
reading was wrong or based on
misinformation it's possible i mean it's
possible there are there are examples
of seemingly factual documents about the
cia and when you look into it it turns
out they're either wrong or grossly
exaggerated but i remember reading this
back in my political science days so
let's say there were 15 scientists in
the project and they write the
conclusions to the phase one report and
the scientists say well look basically
you know we can't really proceed with
this research without torturing people
because it seems like this split
personality thing it only basically
happens when someone's so traumatized
that they kind of start suppressing
memories you know like it so you know so
really you know this is going to be kind
of really unethical and involve
torturing people or doing terrible
things to be honest doesn't doesn't
really make any sense
and um
so somebody in charge said okay fine so
anyone who doesn't want to go any
further with these experiments
you know you can you can resign
africa out of the 15
scientists like
12 of them resigned
and then some of them decided they want
to stay and go further with research and
they hired seven new people or something
i did like you know protocol who wants
to be involved in research about
traumatizing people and seeing if they
can have repressed memories and
you know oh you can opt out and you know
again none of those guys will you think
any of them are poor you think any of
them are begging do you think anyone
made this decision on the basis of money
do you think the scientists who stayed
in to torture people and see what
happened you know when you create split
do you think it was like oh well well i
i could be working on fungal foot
infections i could be
that could be doing so oh but the money
is really good no there's no way the
money will ever be the decisive factor
there never not for these people you
know i think if you've met these people
and spent time with these people you'll
know what i'm saying
now there are problems i mean i was
saying before to you dead serious now
we've digressed on to many other topics
now i think that these people i think
the scientists who torture people to
death i think the scientists that
torture animals to death and i think the
scientists who created the whole you
know
biopsychiatric
for-profit complex that ruins millions
of people's lives you know i think
they are morally worse
than the small-town
christian preacher
whose practice in life is to hold some
old old woman's hand and cry with her to
sit with an old woman at the funeral and
weep with her and talk to her if it's
catholicism maybe hear her confession
you know protestants don't do that to
sit with someone and talk to them and
talk to them about the meaning of life
and talk to them about death and talk
about the death of their husband you
know and a preacher who's called in
to talk to some teenage kid who's a brat
and giving his parents a lot of trouble
and talked to this teenage kid about
drugs and sex and
video games and what it means to be a
man you know a lot a lot of religious
leaders do all these things i knew i
knew buddhist monks who were doing this
stuff and it's really not part of the
buddhist religion that was what the
community needed they need people who go
do this kind of thing you know
even if at the beginning of your career
as a religious leader you're a person of
absolutely zero
moral character right there's a kind of
praxis here that draws you into the
study of human nature and helping human
beings and caring about them and
listening to them
and you know yes
many of these preachers they are
encouraging prayer which doesn't work
the drugs also don't you know in many
many areas of science there's a
vivisection doesn't work torturing
animals to death doesn't work torturing
monkeys to death just to see how unhappy
they can be we have
sorry it's a real example i can give you
links to articles we've tortured animals
to death for completely different
ridiculous reasons in history science
and you know
i'm using these examples because they're
easy to cite but they're very real the
whole corpus
of soviet union science the whole corpus
of german nazi science in terms of this
whole literature a whole category of
science that's complete [ __ ] these
people were
scientists and they're still among us
there are scientists of that moral stamp
of that moral caliber
i am an atheist i totally despise
organized religion but that does not
mean that i share
tj kirk the amazing atheist that i share
this other youtubers naive jejune
embrace
of scientists as if they are something
superhuman i i'm really here to say to
you instead that scientists especially
academically credentialed scientists
they really are some of the worst people
in the world they're so bad they're so
awful as individual people that i think
you would find in all honesty they
compare very poorly to the average
religious leader
it's going to pause and and take a look
at the uh they look the comments from
the audience
um
but look i mean all right i just i just
wanna say you know
when tj kirk says he said it in two
separate videos in almost the same tone
of voice
that he believes the government united
states of america should have a special
branch a special a special division
entirely staffed by
properly credentialed scientists
you know you can just tell from the way
he says that he believes in these people
you know and tj you believe in them
because you don't know who they are
you you don't know them
face to face you know you don't know the
reality of who they are um
i judge
napoleon
by his sex life
not only by his sex life napoleon was
also racist napoleon was also
pro-slavery of slavery of black people
specifically you know there are all
kinds of things i judge
i think he was a terrible military
strategist i'm just being honest with
you everyone says what a great military
strategist he was and he really wasn't
i'm a critic of napoleon in many many
ways
a lot of people on the left
a lot of activists for atheism
they worship a guy called bill nye
bill nye the science guy have you ever
looked into bill nye's sex life
these people are not angels and i'm just
being real with you they're not even
good people
they're really not i have a whole
lengthy critique of universities of the
academic
system in my book no more manifestos
and i don't intend to repeat that here
but
you know within the disaster that is the
21st century
university system you know there's kind
of a special ring of hell
for the hard sciences
um it's a terrible education system
it is selecting four terrible people and
it is making them into much more
terrible people
okay i try to say something nice about
scientists later in the i heard that
later in the video but it's all right
i'll just stop so somebody i think
somebody's just googled it someone's
just googled bill nye sex life anyway um
but look you know
isn't it easy
for us all to keep scorn on the moral
character of politicians why because you
know them
because they have some level of
transparency you see them you hear their
voices oh you you really think
scientists are better people than
elected politicians really
really think about what i just said
about the the country priest
who holds someone's hand while they're
dying and who comforts the widow after
her husband has died and does that again
and again and again who sees human
sorrow and agony i mean even within the
hospital the doctor is in and he's out
he the doctor comes in
he checks the medication he walks out
and very often it's the priest who's
sitting there with the person while
they're dying who's doing so-called
palliative care right think about the
role of the priest in the community you
know everything in life whether it's new
babies being born or drug addicts or
gambling addicts they're helping parents
with their crappy teenage kids giving
morality lectures to people and so on
there's a way in which they are
positively involved in human nature
you know no matter how ridiculous their
religion may be you know
think about the experience of
politicians in the community the same
way
you know think about i mean in the
united states of america whether it's a
local city councilor or a mayor or a
state senator or state congressman
somewhat someone who's not the president
united states someone who's not
particularly part of someone in the
middle
middle zone of being elected to
government but not at all being a
dictator you know the things they learn
the things they observe
you know in the economy and the
struggles of life they go and visit a
school because they've read a newspaper
article or maybe they had a handwritten
letter sent from a parent saying this
school is a disaster we need to have an
intervention and they go to the school
this is you know just reality for most
politicians and they can see
this is a terrible school
and they don't know what to do about it
you know this is a politician again if
you're just elected for the first time
this goes on for years and they go and
talk to someone and they investigate
they talk to the parents and they talk
to the school minister and they talk to
the po okay what can we this school is
terrible you know they're involved in
life in questioning and trying to solve
problems i mean even if they start off
being an idiot or being a terrible
person there's a process there again of
of them being involved in and engaged
with human nature
um
you know and that is the exact opposite
of the process of both the education and
the career of scientists scientists are
separated from reality from the most
important aspects of reality in all in
all these ways and more
you know
okay guys i'm going to take a moment to
look at your look at your uh
so yeah someone here knows the name
lysenko and lysenkoism i've mentioned
him in my essays many times he's
probably been mentioned here on youtube
a couple times
i got compliment for the screen the live
stream a couple days ago about uh in
cells the cultural critique offered by
themselves and the critique of insulin
thank you for thank you for that post
human glad to hear you you liked the
stream
i i feel that's one of the best videos
in the whole history of my channel if my
opinion counts or everything i was very
very happy with that
yeah so frida is mentioning some of the
really ridiculous experiments done on
dolphins i've read about some of that
stuff too
and a lot of that i mean
what what could the research have
possibly proven so a lot of you guys are
talking about experiments on animals
there are also unbelievably terrible
experiments on human beings i remember
this was when i was first getting into
vegan activism i found a website and it
was just scientists i i don't think
there were many scientists i think
there's like two guys around this
website because it wasn't a huge
foundation but it was scientists who
were criticizing waste
within scientific research where it's
like things are a waste of money so it
was a very interesting perspective so
they weren't opposed to
torturing animals if
it was for a real reason if there was
something really going to be discovered
but they had all these examples of huge
amounts of money being spent and animals
being tortured death where it couldn't
have possibly um discovered anything so
one of them was an experiment where they
took lambs this is baby sheep lambs and
they threw them against the wall until
their necks were broken
and then they x-rayed their necks i
think they dissected them and looked at
the fractures and they said i mean again
i'm reading there i didn't read the
original report i read these scientists
criticizing the study but they said look
you know the conclusions to the study
basically admit well this study couldn't
have possibly proven anything like you
know like you know they had to draw some
conclusions like well as you can see
like you know the ones that kind of hit
with the left side of the neck got this
kind of fracture and when the impact was
on this like you know they tried to draw
some conclusions about this but you know
it was like well we hoped we were going
to draw some conclusions that are useful
to understanding and injuries to human
beings and cars or something but it is
just really not there you know so you
know the the the depth and extent is
significant of just just
waste
just meaningless pointless
uh research um so there's a wikipedia
article called uh the pit of despair
experiments um that's what the wikipedia
article is called and that's what
they're referred to as that was
torturing uh monkeys to death for no
reason and the only point of the sorry
this is a real series of scientific
experiments um they're notorious i mean
they're they're well-known people in in
many of the sciences and the only thing
it was trying to prove or could prove is
that if you took a monkey and made it
unhappy enough
it could never really be happy again
it's just
like like you can't really recover from
something
great you know
so you know um
you know so amelia woods says that her
her neurologist also a scientist with
impressive credentials is probably the
least empathetic person i've ever met
period also one of the rudest
well
you know
and if if your neurologist didn't have
those characteristics before he or she
entered university
they might be like that by the end right
the process of both selection and
preparation and inculcation so i just
mentioned this came up a lot years ago
on this channel when we were talking
about dietitians
and like you know there are people who
are scientists with phds in the sciences
who are out there testing a hypothesis
like okay how many grams of protein is
optimal for losing weight or gaining
muscle or something but then there are
also people who just have that
experience of holding someone's hand
and guiding them and coaching them as
they lose weight and they gain the
weight back again like where it's the
human
reality of that experience of trying to
motivate someone and keep them on track
and trying to understand psychologically
why the diet didn't work for them
because most of the time it's not a
scientific problem it's not like you
know it's not like oh well
this person didn't realize that eating
potato chips was bad for them no they
realized it and they didn't have the
self-discipline to death control where a
lot of what you're dealing with is
you know this this human reality the
human nature side of dietetics and
nutrition it's not you know laboratory
science and you know we have a system of
education and you know you know exactly
i mean just like your neurologist you
know what kind of person
prepares for studies for and writes
those exams and then you know what kind
of
you know um
you know you know what kind of attitudes
and sense of entitlement they have
coming out of that that's another huge
factor with this this phenomenon with uh
psychiatric medication is also just that
the people within this profession want
to feel that they can push a button and
solve a problem that they can take a
pill so they want to feel that this is
in the domain of science and it's not
most of which i mean ninety-five percent
of which i is in the domain of human
emotions human misery you know it's it's
much closer to the domain of religion
or the domain of indeed uh a gym coach
you know someone trying to get you
motivated and thinking positively so you
can win the game or something and you
know again the gym coach something else
we can contrast to the someone working
in dietetics and nutrition you know so
no i mean
you know
partly the people who are produced by
scientific education they have
assumptions about their own
authority their own role in the world
the way in which they ought to dictate
reality rather than learn from it which
is you know in a word toxic
you know in a word malignant in a word
dangerous and why do so many scientists
become nazis why do so many scientists
become communists it's nothing
democratic about science not as it's
taught not as it's taught in our culture
or
any culture i know over the last 200
years
um
it's it's a really twisted sort of
aristocracy okay shout out to brendan
williams thanks for saying that brendan
brendan says that his most anticipated
book is isil's upcoming book so the book
is titled no more manifestos we will see
how quickly i i wrap it up i have a
bunch of big decisions to make in my
life but i could i mean i could wrap it
up in just a couple days but i'm you
know i'm feeling i should take a lot of
time and trying to make it try to make
it perfect
oh mercia asks quote do you have a video
on female himself
i i'd like to think that all my videos
about gender politics and so on
i think they all apply to all genders
and all orientations yeah so uh brandon
williams is referring to the pit of
despair uh experiments i can give you
guys that link and that's no big deal
i'm pretty sure that's it's on as i
mentioned it's on wikipedia
did i say pit of despair i think i think
i got it right maybe i said pit of whole
business or something yeah anyway there
you go there's the there's the video on
that
uh i think brandon williams no so willem
again
mentions um
mk ultra so
yeah so there's mk ultra there's
project monarch which was before mk
ultra um there were also experiments
that are much less famous that took
place over the border in montreal canada
so most americans don't know but it was
cia project in
in montreal torturing people and why
they didn't do much role i don't know i
don't care but no we have you know you
guys probably know there were
experiments that are much resented
forget they were called the tuskegee
experiments of intentionally giving uh
sexually transmitted diseases to black
men to see how they'd suffer
uh
maybe i'm uh there you go the tuskegee
syphilis study there you go i remember
there were a lot of uh
experiments done on
americans in prison
having to do with skin conditions
remember there was a book about it that
had the title acres of skin so there's a
link on that
um
as i remember there was a quote from one
of the scientists one of those here it
is oh well i found the book
shows i must have seen this book 30
years ago
um
still got it boy that's
case you guys don't know i i drink zero
alcohol i i use zero drugs so i can
remember this book i probably saw this
uh 20 years ago or something um oh
okay i can get that whole link in there
all right the i i think the link i'm not
allowed to share because it's just too
long so it's it's a book from 1998
called acres of skin and it was given
that title because one of the scientists
um
involved in experimenting on on american
prisoners
he he said you know he regards the
prison population regards this prison
population as acres of skin to carry out
his uh his experiments on you know oh
yeah so the bikini atoll radiation
experiments
i remember um
i remember watching an interview with a
survivor and he was he was dying i mean
he was dying of radiation poisoning but
he was dying more slowly some people
died immediately the bikini it's all
ridiculous
so look you know um
i take a lot of long walks with my
girlfriend we talk about a lot of things
in depth
um
[Music]
i reminded her earlier today in the
context of a totally different
discussion i said you know the reason
why
i left buddhism the reason why i quit
buddhism
was not buddhism
it was not
any particular principle or theory or
philosophy found in buddhism as a
religion you know put it this way that's
not why i left buddhist
i gave up on
buddhism because of buddhists because of
who
buddhists are
you know
and i don't really mean this in a
hypothetical sense i had met and spoken
with hundreds of buddhists at all levels
of education and
speaking different languages and and so
on and so forth you know no now look if
this sounds some of you may think this
is really unreasonable okay
how do you feel about rock and roll
how do you feel about devoting the next
10 years of your life to rock and roll
how do you feel about these five guys
who are in the band with you
how do you feel about devoting all your
time and energy to working with these
five guys all right you're not making a
judgment about rock and roll you're
making a judgment about this band and
you're making a judgment on this band
that is based on who the people are
in this band okay so i'm not making a
judgment about
buddhism as a text as a theory as a
philosophy right i'm making a judgment
about you and you and you and you and
you yeah it's more it's more than five
guys but you know obviously there are a
small number of people at the top
controlling certainly controlling what's
going on in terabyte of buddhism and the
academic study of terabyte of muslim um
you know there are there are five guys
you know ultimately the catholic church
is probably controlled by five guys at
the top too you know
the pope and a few of his friends you
might quit the catholic church because
you disagree with the pope and you don't
disagree with catholicism
in theory yeah
um
you know
i think people are eager
to make judgments
about science
and that's not what i'm encouraging to
do in this video i'm telling you to make
judgments about scientists
you know who are these people who are
the men and women with phds who rule
this peculiar
completely undemocratic
completely you know corrupt aristocracy
within our society that we call science
you know i'm asking you to make a
judgment about about the people involved
now i would also point out many of you
you tune into my
channel
to hear what i have to say about
psychology at this point i think it's
probably the majority of my audience
there is a sense in which you know like
many many many of my videos are about
psychology
and you care about what i have to say
people ask me for help about their own
lives
we're talking about psychology i think
nobody here would say that they hate
psychology or they disagree with
psychology nobody would say abolish
psychology nobody would say defunct
psychology you know tear down psychology
right okay so you know like well what do
you think about psychology are we
talking about theory are we talking
about a text we're talking about
okay now i ask you what do you think
about psychologists
maybe i mean for many people here maybe
while you were in high school you were
sent to an office where you had to talk
to a psychologist i just read some
really scary examples of that of people
having teenage encounters with
psychologists have you ever
asked for help whether over the phone or
face to face you're dealing with some
challenging life and you talk to a
psychologist have you ever been going
through a divorce or a breakup with your
girlfriend or boyfriend and you talked
to a psychologist what do you think
about that man
what did you think about that person or
those people
right
oh
now we're thinking about something very
different now we're not thinking about a
theory
right now we're not thinking about a
principle now we're not thinking about a
text in the sense that the bible is a
text or the the
ancient buddhist philosophy exists inert
and dead on paper oh
now we're talking about now we're
talking about people
okay oh yeah those are terrible people
oh yeah all the psychologists they're
unspeakably terrible people oh god that
was awful i mean that was terrifying you
know no you know oh yeah in theory
psychology could be this wonderful
positive thing in our lives what an idea
that people would study in university
and now immediately we start to move
beyond that and say okay well that this
can't just be a few bad apples right
why
why are they terrible why why are
psychologists so bad even if there's a
sense in which psychology is so good so
you see why i'm saying this there's
there's a sense in which science is good
right why do i use toothpaste and a
toothbrush you know
science you know there's this why do i
you know
why am i not getting cholera by drinking
water out of this can you know what i
mean how is it we know whether or not
water contains cholera and we design
sewage systems so all of us get to
shower and drink drink water out of a
tap without worrying about cholera
organic oh oh that's
that's science oh okay we all have this
unimpeachably
positive view of science oh okay now and
now what about
scientists
and i'm not insulting you guys you may
or may not have lived a life where you
really knew scientists and really knew
them as people
not at a distance where you knew about
their divorce and you knew about their
sex life you knew about the
bdsm
woman they missed what's the word
dominatrix they visited
so i'm not into btsm tj is tjs he would
know the centromere you know where you
you really know this scientist as a man
you know the depths of his souls you
know the whites of his eyes you know you
know him deep down inside you know a
scientist and you know his excuses for
not eating a vegan diet or whatever you
know you know you know him like that you
know oh okay so if we if we think
psychology is good but not psychologists
or if we think buddhism is good but not
buddhists
uh like buddhist philosophy in some
sense you know you think it's good and
said some value or something i mean look
you may think shakespeare is good but
you hate actors
you don't really like people who work in
the theater but you love shakespeare
okay
this is not a contradiction this does
not make you a hypocrite they're two
very different things right okay so we
immediately have to press past this and
start to ask ourselves why
why do psychologists have these
terrifying
authoritarian attitudes you look at
jordan peterson you know
to what extent is jordan peterson the
product of his education
and to what extent is he going on to
produce other people who are
dysfunctional in the same way as an
educator i mean he was he was a
psychologist he was also a professor of
psychology you know and have pointed so
many times he he completely bought into
the myth of biopsychiatry he completely
believed in antidepressants he
completely believed in benzodiazepines
right up until it put him in the
hospital and almost killed him and even
then in his book there's one sentence in
the appendix to his book where he just
says that benzodiazepines
are in theory harmless but in practice
in reality very dangerous there's one
sentence you know
um
you know obviously we start to ask
tougher and tougher questions about
education
now i've just written a book that talks
a lot about this because what i saw
happening in the year 2020 and enough
time has gone fast we can already see
it's over this is the testing says oh
oh why are police choking people to
death why are police using chokeholds
why are they doing these terrible things
and right away what people want to do is
oh it must be the system of education it
must be a police are educated so my book
i have many many pages talking about
this the book does not talk about
philosophy of science very much it does
not talk about what this video talks
about in general but you know oh oh
really so the year 2020 came and went
the year 2021 is almost over now
um did anyone did even one person
go
to the police academy and get the
reading list of what the textbooks
actually are did anyone actually read
the textbooks that are used to translate
did anyone actually sit in the classroom
and observe
what they're taught and how was there
any
real interest in the analysis of police
education let alone its reform it's very
fleeting it's very shallow
that we're so ready to blame
education and we don't seem to be ready
at all to actually reform it to actually
analyze it so on the one hand i
recognize it's inevitable that we're
going to engage in a critique of
psychology it's inevitable we're going
to engage in a treat critique of
scientific education even within a field
of science like nutrition of course
but i'm also tremendously skeptical in a
true profound sense of schedule i'm very
uh skeptical about that critique of of
education and and uh where it leads next
okay guys i'm now just going to return
to your comments there'll be a little
bit of dead air as i look through this
stuff
i thought there was a really interesting
question in here that had the word
democracy a lot of intelligent comments
about it so you guys are talking about
talking amongst yourselves
but what i don't understand is uh why we
only have 15 thumbs up at this point far
more of you should be hitting the thumbs
up button so people could have joined
the conversation
okay so maybe this is gonna be the last
last question for the audience for me to
for me to close on
um
[Music]
so you plant-based powered it's good
you're asking about jordan peterson well
he's credentialed right
if you have the phd you have the
credential nobody questions anything
beyond that right who is a doctor and
who is not a doctor there's a piece of
paper that they have nailed to the wall
it says they're a doctor so that's it so
become an authority figure
um
nobody elected them
nor can they ever lose an election can
never uh you know can never be called
into question this way
okay totally fair comment from freda
freda says quote and i think
psychologists position of authority
often translates into abusive
relationships with the patients okay i
would go a step further
i think by definition
it's an abusive relationship
so you know i i
remember melissa talked to a sorry some
kind of therapist right
back when melissa was first falling in
love with me and thinking about moving
to china to be with me right she meets
and speaks this woman you know
what are you going to talk about yeah
i'm thinking about moving to china well
now you need to talk to somebody who
knows something about china and you know
now maybe someone maybe this this
psychologist is so
sheltered and unworldly and quick they
don't know anything oh that's crazy oh
wow you must have some delusion there
must be something wrong with you that
you've fallen in love with someone who
chat maybe you talked to psychologists
who says oh yeah they've been to china
on vacation now where are you going like
you know this is all just totally
subjective like
right sorry this is another whole this
is a really deep issue
but um
i was talking to melissa the other day
and she said in passing well i'm not a
doctor but and she meant medical doctor
i'm not even going to bother saying what
the conversation but you can imagine she
said well i'm not a doctor but i'm
certain about this and this you know
she's just going to say you know i let
her finish her sentence finish her
barrel rap i said look you know you know
i've got to jump in on that issue of
going around saying i am not a doctor
but
think about how little
medical doctors know about any one
of these issues if you're not talking
about someone who happens to be a
specialist in this field who happens to
have a personal research interest like
you know i took an interest in cambodia
for several years so i read a lot about
cambodia but like being a doctor or not
being a doctor has no bearing on that
you can see so many doctors
who have some confidence in something
they had some like maybe they had a lot
of training with how to deal with a
broken arm
but they're put in a position of being
an expert about vegan nutrition you know
so i knew i knew a vegan she was a
mother with a small child and she got a
phone call from a doctor proper medical
doctor was fully credentialed
because the school put the doctor up to
it so it was like the the school
so the teacher talked to the principal
of the school and the principal phoned
this doctor and then the doctor gives
her this phone call she the doctor's
basically been told by the school
authorities to call this parent and put
them in order and say that she has to
feed her child meat because there's no
source of protein in a vegan diet
there's a phone call from a doctor what
is what does that doctor know about
veganism what does a psychologist know
about china you know what does a
psychologist know about your
relationship with your boyfriend and so
there's all these obvious you know flaws
in the system
well they only know what you tell them
right and their own prejudices and
biases and their own cultural background
all this stuff oh they don't get to hear
the boyfriend's perspective you know so
my father was a liar he lied about
everything
i've never met his therapist i know we
had a therapist for many years if i met
his therapist his therapist would be
blown away be like well you're a totally
different person from what my your
father described of course my father
wasn't capable of telling the truth
about me i mean if he wanted to tell you
the truth about me he couldn't you know
he was constantly lying about everything
but basically anything that touched his
ego he would he would lie about so you'd
be lying costly but his relationship
with all his kids lying about everything
he was not delusional he was a liar
there are two different things he was
intentionally lying constantly what does
a therapist know when they're targeting
a composer okay but you know my point is
i'm actually wanting to go much further
and say no it doesn't matter how nice
how friendly you know the relationship
between the psychologist and the and the
patient is i think that that
relationship authority it's always
abusive right and i'll tell you two
things for now coming back to the title
of this video it's never scientific and
it's never democratic and what we've
done is set up an academic ideal of the
sciences that is in every way the
opposite of democracy it's not just
incompatible with democracy right but it
undermines the most basic concepts of
democracy and that psychologist can
never be made accountable that
psychologist can never be drawn up
before the panics and voted out of the
office or voted to go fight in the front
lines in iraq now i always forget this
guy's name was it cleon in ancient
athens so there was this marvelous
figure in uh thucydides in the history
of athens so the guy's name is cleon
and the author here is uh thucydides
do some reading all right there's this
wonderful drama that unfolds in
thucydides thucydides deciding
describing you the way democracy really
worked happens and cleon is
cross-examining and criticizing the guys
who are in charge of the war the war
effort the political leaders or military
leaders both i've been sure tomorrow and
he ends one of his speeches where he's
you know this is part of democracy he's
criticizing what's goes on and he says
something like if i were put in charge
of this war you know i would win that
battle and bring back victory within 30
days now maybe it was two weeks you know
i forget the number of days he says
something like this says you know within
30 days
i would i
he said something like i would win that
battle or die trying and you know that'd
be it this would be over
and he left he walked out of the arena i
don't know he just did that for dramatic
effect or
yeah
he left and after he left they had a
vote
they voted to send him off to leave
and it's openly said they were laughing
about it they said well
you know either he wins or will be rid
of him like either he wins or he dies
and if he dies then we don't have to put
up with him and he wants that's a
political leader now the rest of the
story is very interesting eventually he
does die but he gets he has some
victories uh before he has some defeats
and whether cleon is a hero or a villain
you know it's a is an important question
you know
okay so jordan peterson
how many people did he put on ssri
antidepressants
how many and by the way i know the
procedure sorry in case you don't know
it i've heard jordan peterson himself
describe it he would recommend that a
patient take one of these drugs and then
he would walk across the hall with the
patient and introduce them to the doctor
who would do the prescription he didn't
directly give the prescription because
in the canadian system that's how it
works he has to go get another doctor to
do it but nevertheless okay
there's no accountability for the fact
that jordan peterson recommended that
his own patients take exactly the same
drug that destroyed his life that his
own patients took the same class of
drugs benzodiazepines the same class of
drugs that he now knows are dangerous
that he knows are deleterious that he
knows ruined his whole life there's no
accountability there's never going to be
a vote there's never going to be a
debate right oh gee yeah those
scientists who did those horrible
experiments in the bikini
was there any democratic accountability
there is no democracy to our system
science at any stage not in
the education system not in the
assignation of research funding not in
being responsible for even using
taxpayers money in an effective way that
has been debated recently by rand paul
in the american senate he i was thinking
about making youtube video about it but
i decided not to he's put on a hilarious
display of research that the government
gave millions of dollars to and there
was complete waste of money
one of them was like a comparative study
of of bird calls when birds are mating
whether or not their mating behavior
changes due to trivial reasons it's just
there's all kinds of scientific research
i mean
stupid pointless
the outcome is obvious and this is
government money taxpayers money and
there's there's no accountability so
it's it's not just undemocratic it's
fundamentally anti-democratic and you
know they have the impunity
that aristocrats once had a type of
impunity that police officers also carry
with them in our society you know the
credentialed experts and they're experts
on what you feel
they're experts on what you think and
what you know
and they can medicate you and they can
literally put you in chains and they can
lock you up in an institution they have
all these powers given to them on the
basis of what
on the basis of a credential because
what they're doing is neither scientific
nor is it democratic it has no
scientific uh validity has no objective
reality there's nothing verifiable about
it and these are the people coming back
to the basic premise of this video these
are the people that the amazing atheist
wants to put in a position of political
power to be able to censor what you are
able to say on facebook and youtube and
in the newspapers and everywhere else
whatever it is they regard as a
scientific certainty well guess what
they've regarded
prozac as a scientific certainty it's
been debunked still today 95 of
americans don't realize that it's been
debunked how about haldol i made a video
just about the drug called haldol which
is pretty scary uh
pretty scary effects in terms of brain
damage and so forth
um so i mean partly this is talking
about our concept of
science you know and
generally though what i'm instead
directing our attention to is the
question of who are scientists
humanizing scientists not dehumanizing
them but regarding them as people and it
seems to me so easy to vilify religious
leaders it seems to me so easy to vilify
political leaders but they have some
transparency they have some
accountability
scientists have
none
so referring to this question from mr
kurtz i hope you're still in the
audience
mister if i may call you missed him
mr kurtz is the name given here mr kurtz
asked simply
how can we make science
more democratic okay
so
what i must say read my book
again my book doesn't really deal with
with science per se but it deals with
education it deals with university
education with occasional references
saying that my critique of how
universities work very much applies to
the sciences then it talks about police
brutality it talks about democracy a lot
talks about how constitutions are
written you know uh so and so forth okay
great good to see you here kurtz um
glad to see you you're here
um
[Music]
you know okay
it's a great question
was i wasn't prepared to talk about this
not that i do any preparation for these
for these videos
um
ugh
oh
legislation
largely
is based on animus
all right now this is animus and it's in
its legal sense
what democracy
you know
tends
to cope with quite well
is a specific resolution for a specific
purpose that forbids a specific
thing
that is our legal tradition and that's
most of what we think about as democracy
um
what we think about as democracy in the
21st century is having a council of
people come together to debate
what should
and what should not be forbidden
so up to a certain point in our history
homosexuality was forbidden then we had
protests and
you know we had uh
cultural change and what have you we had
political activism right
and at some point we decided no we're
gonna permit and even encourage
homosexuality we're gonna have gay
marriage and we're gonna make gays equal
and and more right okay so something was
forbidden
now it's not forbidden okay it used to
be
that racism was compulsory
and then we made racism forbidden this
is a good example because we all know
you know it's
you can compare from country to country
and this is true from one country to the
next in europe what does it mean
to make racism forbidden i just applied
sorry i shouldn't say apply i had an
interview with a university
in order to apply to become a student
there
and i was refused for being a jew
this is in california in the united
states america 2021.
so
racism is forbidden
discrimination on the basis of religion
is forbidden
and it's still ongoing
they can tell you exactly how that's
justified under the american
constitution you know so on and so forth
but you know
we have a problem i mean obviously i
could say a lot more about the
difference between direct democracy and
indirect democracy but we have a whole
tradition of what is law what is law and
order that is really just based on
forbidding
things okay
now
how do you build a school
read your constitution what does it say
about schools
i'll point out this is fresh in my mind
for different reasons the american
constitution the federal constitution
says nothing about schools
nothing
what they wrote in the american
constitution
in the 1780s
no interest
ah
but look at the constitution for the
state of maine
written in 1820
some of the same people were still alive
from writing the federal constitution
the constitution united states america
uh including thomas jefferson he was
still alive and he participated in
writing the constitution for the state
of maine
ah now there are several paragraphs
talking about state funding in education
his is brief and it's vague and it's
also forbidding something so it actually
does this illustrates my point further
what does it say about education in the
constitutional state of maine it forbids
the government
to give money to any school
unless that school is willing to allow
the government to make decisions about
education like a school can't remain
independent with it okay it's
interesting very limited very limited
statement all right
how do you create
scientific attitudes
amongst the general public
how do you create frankly an elite
you know of of expert
scientists
we have a society that has not yet
gotten to the point of even being
willing or capable
to make circumcision illegal to make
cutting off part of your penis illegal
because of your sacred covenant with the
judeo-christian god
you know
we're so completely stuck on this issue
of
forbidding
and the opposite of forbidding being
liberated being rights
uh
so on and so forth that you know i think
the the most honest answer i can give
you
is that um
you know we have not yet begun
to really talk in any meaningful sense
about the relationship between
democracy and
science
you know
um
yeah thanks guys i am seeing your
comments as they come in i know i know
the uh video
from jordan peters and giantbone i know
i know the stuff you're talking about by
the way thanks for watching my other
live streams about uh
in cells and these other topics and
thanks for the encouragement to grow my
beard longer somebody's a fan of the
beard
[Music]
you know okay
i feel like one of the biggest mistakes
we've made
is in actually
separating democracy
from the judiciary from the role of the
courts
you know
most people today most people with phds
in political science for example and
most normal people
they'll use less academic language
they talk about democracy now
entirely in terms of the question of who
gets what
so the government has an enormous amount
of money
and then how it doles out those
privileges those programs how it funds
things you know then that becomes the
debate
so this is a sense in which um
the social services state has kind of
blotted out the last memory of what
democracy was supposed to be
in a more ancient and more a more
meaningful sense you know
well
you know that's not the only aspect to
democracy you know another
really important aspect of democracy has
to do with accountability has to do with
judgment has to do with creating
consequences
for our actions you know
and
i've said this before i will probably
say it again
if you want to understand athenian
democracy
you can
try to understand theater
they went to the theater and they voted
they voted for who would win
who had the best song who had the best
comedy who had the best tragedy
audiences voted at the theater they went
to court they had an enormous jury it
was just like the theater they had a
huge audience
who would hear the arguments
and they would vote
and people would be punished and people
would die
on the basis of the vote
from the audience in case you haven't
heard
they killed socrates
um
aristotle fled for his life when
aristotle ran away from athens he was he
was convinced or presumed that he was
going to be put on trial and killed uh
if he stayed in athens any longer just
just to mention that socrates's
experience was not necessarily
completely you know
you know
now you know
um
if you're talking about
the democratization of of science okay
i'll give you a real quick parallel
oh boy this is a long time ago can
anyone remember 2008
i remember a conversation boy i have to
think where it was i remember a
conversation on broadcast television
so this is probably cnbc or msnbc or
whatever they have like that you know
and it was about making changes to the
government oversight of the stock market
at the last minute kind of as the crisis
was sitting in or just before the crisis
and i remember the the reporter the
journalist who obviously was he seemed
to have realized jesus
he said sincerely he said i think
there's this really fundamental mistake
we're all up against which is that
people in power think
that the guys making money on wall
street the stock brokers and hedge fund
managers that the guys making money on
wall street and the government
regulators ought to get along and be
great friends
and he said no you want wall street to
be afraid of the government you want the
regulated people they are terrified of
you do not want this to be a cooperative
or positive happy relation you know
um
for me that hints at
this
aspect
of democracy
why are our universities
so poor
our professors have total impunity
our professors are simply aristocrats
among us never once do our professors
worry oh if i teach this
what will the pnex make that
what will parliament make of it in what
way will i be held accountable
in this democracy in what way will i
have to stand on trial as socrates once
did and and present an apology present a
defense of my views of what i'm teaching
and never forget that's what socrates
was put on trial for he was put on trial
for what he was teaching the youth
because some of the youths he had been
teaching had gone on to be
politically notorious people most
notably alcibiades
um
[Music]
you know the idea
that a teacher
should be brought before the people
not the senate
not the congress
but
the panics
direct democracy
the idea that a teacher should be
accountable for what they're teaching
the idea that a student
could bring
a teacher in to be held accountable in a
democracy
you know this is this has completely
died and been forgotten
you know so i'm giving the most sincere
answer i can hear
if you're asking about
how could science be made democratic
i would say that you know
in the same way that that that news
broadcaster had the honesty to say you
need wall street
to be afraid of the government
regulators you know not to be
cooperating with them or happy or
controlling their appointment or
capturing them whatever not feeling that
they're working together for the same
for the same interests you know i've got
to tell you something i think that
people like jordan peterson
i think that people like jordan peterson
should be afraid to harm their patients
i think that they should be afraid to
preach quack medicine debunked
pseudoscience quack medicine to their
own students i think jordan peterson
should be afraid
to teach his ridiculous theory about the
eye of horus he has all these crazy
theories about ancient religion that
could be the funk too i think he should
be afraid to teach
complete [ __ ] because i think he
should feel that he's accountable
and he's accountable to his students and
that he's accountable to the real world
outcomes
like well how many are students how
pardon me how many of your patients
actually got better after taking this
cure and i think he should be
accountable to the people
in a democratic sense
so if you're asking me
in what way
you know can
science be made more democratic you know
i have to say i i'd really start with
talking about
consequences the way in which democracy
can and should create consequences for
our choices consequences for our actions
and now we've drifted so far away from
that
momentarily in the year 2021 people are
asking oh they're what went wrong in
afghanistan
who's responsible who's accountable will
will there be even one military leader
who's brought in and put on trial you
know and a trial in some sense just an
inquest an inquiry a cross-examination i
mean i'm not even saying there have to
be criminal charges where they will be
blamed and they will be interrogated and
the evidence will be gathered together
and analyzed and say you
you know maybe i doubt it honestly in
the american system it's probably not a
military leader probably a political
leader who was a strategist whether they
were with the state department or the
eop or the you know whichever branch
they're with they could be with the
pentagon but whatever you know one of
the branches of the federal government
who was it that made these decisions
maybe it was george w bush himself and
maybe not you know i'm just saying the
extent that george bush was on autopilot
you know that's another question but you
know we have no content we have no
expectation whatsoever that anyone will
be brought in and questioned and held
accountable certainly not the extent of
socrates and certainly not this is
anywhere else
we had this brief fleeting fascination
in the year 2020 that someone should be
accountable for the fact that police are
choking people to death right but
there's no panics there's no trial
there's no right
no no nobody nobody's gonna question who
who taught the police to use these
chokeholds who taught these procedures
who created this curriculum who created
these rules and they will be particular
people you know it's partly laws it's
partly standards and procedures and
you know there is a question not just of
changing the laws you've got but of
really having a culture of of
accountability
of democratic accountability
in that sense
okay guys so i'm ready to wrap up this
video now
um
we're talking about science
we're talking about democracy and i
think we have drifted away from the
issue of censorship
but maybe this puts censorship in a very
different context doesn't it
okay one type of censorship
is preventing you from saying something
you want to say
another type of censorship
is silencing what you've said so that it
cannot reach an audience or which is the
smallest audience possible i think
that's very much what
the amazing atheist is talking about in
his videos but there's another type of
censorship right there's a type of
censorship that's that's truly
democratic that says well you can say
what you want
but you are going to be accountable
you are going to be held responsible for
the consequences
and we don't do that to school teachers
and we don't do that to university
professors we don't do that to
scientists
and we don't do that to police officers
i've written a whole book
advancing the thesis
that the fundamental problem with our
democracy
is that within
the larger circle of a supposedly
democratic system supposedly democratic
society we've created myriad smaller
circles small hierarchies that can
indeed be described as aristocratic
so we are living through still now in my
opinion
a uh
a period of aristocratic science
that has yet to be challenged by any
paradigm that i could call
a democracy of scientific knowledge and
so it is unthinkable to someone like the
amazing atheist to truly have
a democratic system
of censorship